<?xml version='1.0' encoding='ISO-8859-1'?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd" [

<!--

Process this file with an XSLT processor: `xsltproc \
-''-nonet /usr/share/sgml/docbook/stylesheet/xsl/nwalsh/\
manpages/docbook.xsl manpage.dbk'.  A manual page
<package>.<section> will be generated.  You may view the
manual page with: nroff -man <package>.<section> | less'.  A
typical entry in a Makefile or Makefile.am is:

DB2MAN=/usr/share/sgml/docbook/stylesheet/xsl/nwalsh/\
manpages/docbook.xsl
XP=xsltproc -''-nonet

manpage.1: manpage.dbk
        $(XP) $(DB2MAN) $<
    
The xsltproc binary is found in the xsltproc package.  The
XSL files are in docbook-xsl.  Please remember that if you
create the nroff version in one of the debian/rules file
targets (such as build), you will need to include xsltproc
and docbook-xsl in your Build-Depends control field.

-->

  <!-- Fill in your name for FIRSTNAME and SURNAME. -->
  <!ENTITY dhfirstname "<firstname>martin f.</firstname>">
  <!ENTITY dhsurname   "<surname>krafft</surname>">
  <!-- Please adjust the date whenever revising the manpage. -->
  <!ENTITY dhdate      "<date>Dec 08, 2004</date>">
  <!-- SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection other parameters are
       allowed: see man(7), man(1). -->
  <!ENTITY dhsection   "<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>">
  <!ENTITY dhemail     "<email>madduck@debian.org</email>">
  <!ENTITY dhusername  "martin f. krafft">
  <!ENTITY dhucpackage "<refentrytitle>deb-reversion</refentrytitle>">
  <!ENTITY dhpackage   "deb-reversion">

  <!ENTITY debian      "<productname>Debian</productname>">
  <!ENTITY gnu         "<acronym>GNU</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY gpl         "&gnu; <acronym>GPL</acronym>">
]>

<refentry>
  <refentryinfo>
    <address>
      &dhemail;
    </address>
    &dhdate;
  </refentryinfo>
  <refmeta>
    &dhucpackage;

    &dhsection;
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv>
    <refname>&dhpackage;</refname>

    <refpurpose>simple script to change the version of a DEB file.</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>
  <refsynopsisdiv>
    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>&dhpackage;</command>
      <arg choice="opt">
        -<option>vckDh</option>
      </arg>
      <replaceable> file</replaceable>
      <arg choice="opt" rep="repeat">log message</arg>
    </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>
  <refsect1>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>

    <para>
      &dhpackage; unpacks the specified DEB file, changes the version number
      in the relevant locations, appends a Debian <filename>changelog</filename> entry
      with the specified contents, and creates a new DEB file with the updated
      version.
    </para>

    <para>
      By default, the tool creates a new version number suitable for local
      changes, such that the new package will be greater than the current one,
      but lesser than any future, official Debian packages. With
      <option>-v</option>, the version number can be specified directly.
      Contrariwise, the <option>-c</option> simply calculates the new
      version number but does not generate a new package.
    </para>

    <para>
      With <option>-k</option>, a hook script may be specified, which is run
      on the unpacked binary packages just before it is repacked. If you want
      to write changelog entries from within the hook, use <command>dch -a --
      your message</command>.
    </para>

    <para>
      More information is available by calling &dhpackage; with the
      <option>-h</option> command line switch.
    </para>

  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>DISCLAIMER</title>
    <para>
      &dhpackage; is a tool intended to help porters (e.g. amd64) with
      modifying packages for other architectures, and to augment deb-repack,
      which creates modified packages with identical version numbers as the
      official packages. Chaos will ensue! With &dhpackage;, a proper version
      number can be selected, which does not obstruct the next official
      release but can be specifically pinned with APT or held with dpkg.
    </para>

    <para>
      Please take note that &dhpackage; does not come without problems. While
      it works fine in most cases, it may just not in yours. Especially,
      please consider that it changes binary packages (only!) and hence can
      break strict versioned dependencies between binary packages generated
      from the same source. </para>

    <para>
      You are using this tool at your own risk and I shall not shed a tear if
      your gerbil goes up in flames, your microwave attacks the stereo, or the
      angry slamming of your fist spills your coffee into the keyboard, which
      sets of a chain reaction resulting in a vast amount of money transfered
      from your account to mine.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
    <title>AUTHOR</title>

    <para>&dhpackage; is (c) 2004-5 by &dhusername; </para>

    <para>
      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
      under the terms of the Artistic License:
      <ulink>http://www.opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license.php</ulink>
      On Debian systems, the complete text of the Artistic License can be
      found
      in <filename>/usr/share/common-licenses/Artistic</filename>.
    </para>

    <para>This manual page was written by &dhusername; &dhemail;.</para>

  </refsect1>
</refentry>
