.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH SUSPICIOUS\-SOURCE 1 "Debian Utilities" "DEBIAN"

.SH NAME
suspicious\-source \- search for files that do not meet the GPL's
definition of "source" for a work

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsuspicious\-source\fP [\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsuspicious\-source\fP outputs a list of files which are probably not
the source form of a work.
This should be run in the root of a source tree to find files which
might not be, in the definition from the GNU GPL, the "preferred form
of the work for making modifications to it".
.PP
The files inside version control system directories (like
\fI.bzr/\fR or \fICVS/\fR) are not considered.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print more information.
.TP
\fB\-d \fIdirectory\fR, \fB\-\-directory=\fIdirectory\fR
Check the files in the specified \fIdirectory\fR instead of the current directory.
.TP
\fB\-m \fImimetype\fR, \fB\-\-mimetype=\fImimetype\fR
Add \fImimetype\fR to list of white-listed MIME types.
.TP
\fB\-e \fIextension\fR, \fB\-\-extension=\fIextension\fR
Add \fIextension\fR to list of white-listed extensions.

.SH AUTHORS
\fBsuspicious\-source\fP and this manpage have been written by
Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>.
.PP
Both are released under the ISC license.
