=head1 NAME

ltnu - lists packages of a maintainer ordered by last upload

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<env> DEBEMAIL=I<maintainer> B<ltnu> [-m]

B<ltnu> [-m] I<maintainer>

B<ltnu> --help

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ltnu> (Long Time No Upload) queries the public mirror of the
Ultimate Debian Database (udd-mirror.debian.net) for all uploads of
packages by the given uploader or maintainer and displays them ordered
by the last upload of that package to Debian Unstable, oldest uploads
first.

Its primary purpose is to check which of your own or your team's
packages haven't been uploaded for a long time and likely need a
packaging revamp. It's less suitable for MIA team purposes as it
doesn't make a difference with regards to who actually uploaded a
package.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -m

Only search in the Maintainer field and ignore the Uploaders field.

=back

=head1 PARAMETERS

The maintainer/uploader to query can be given either by setting
C<$DEBEMAIL> as environment variable or as single commandline parameter.

If a commandline parameter does not contain an C<@>, C<@debian.org> is
appended, e.g. C<ltnu abe> queries for C<abe@debian.org>.

Exceptions are some shortcuts for common, long e-mail addresses. So
far implemented shortcuts:

=over 13

=item pkg-gnustep

pkg-gnustep-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org

=item pkg-perl

pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org

=item pkg-zsh

pkg-zsh-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org

=item qa

packages@qa.debian.org

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The following environment variables are honoured:

=over

=item DEBEMAIL

Used for querying if no parameter is given.

=item PAGER

Used by B<psql> as pager.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

    $ ltnu pkg-zsh
             source          |     ver      |        uploaded
    -------------------------+--------------+------------------------
     zgen                    | 0~20150919-3 | 2016-08-24 04:55:31+00
     zplug                   | 2.4.1-1      | 2017-01-13 09:51:26+00
     zsh-syntax-highlighting | 0.6.0-1      | 2017-08-30 09:06:26+00
     zsh                     | 5.4.2-2      | 2017-11-02 20:56:55+00
    (4 rows)

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

B<ltnu> uses the PostgreSQL client command B<psql> and hence needs
Debian's B<postgresql-client> package to be installed.

=head1 AUTHOR, COPYRIGHT, LICENSE

Copyright 2017 Axel Beckert <abe@debian.org>. Licensed under the GNU
General Public License, version 2 or later.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<https://udd-mirror.debian.net/>, L<https://udd.debian.org/>,
L<https://wiki.debian.org/UltimateDebianDatabase>
