# Copyright © 2013 Jakub Wilk <jwilk@debian.org>

# Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
# purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
# copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
#
# THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
# REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
# AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
# INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
# LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
# OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
# PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

sadt - simple DEP-8 test runner

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sadt> [I<options>] [I<test-name>...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sadt> is a simple implementation of DEP-8 (“automatic as-installed package
testing”) test runner.

It is your responsibility to satisfy tests' dependencies.  B<sadt> won't
attempt to install any missing packages.  If a test's dependencies cannot be
satisfied by packages that are currently installed, the test will be skipped.

B<sadt> won't build the package even if a test declares the B<build-needed>
restriction.  Instead, such a test will be skipped.  However, you can build the
package manually, and then tell B<sadt> to assume that the package is already
built using the B<-b>/B<--built-source-tree>.

B<sadt> doesn't implement any virtualisation arrangements, therefore it skips
tests that declare the B<breaks-testbed> restriction.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Make the output more verbose.

=item B<-b>, B<--built-source-tree>

Assume that the source tree is already built.
This is equivalent to B<--ignore-restriction=build-needed>.

=item B<--ignore-restriction>=I<restriction>

Don't skip tests that declare the I<restriction>.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show a help message and exit.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<adt-run>(1)
